# Day 001 - 02 April 2025
---
## What I Did Today
---
- Conceptualized this project with the help of ChatGPT.
- Created React app using Vite to serve as project scaffolding.
- Set up dev journal.
- Conducted research to determine what technologies I should use for this project.
- Cleaned up default Vite + React content for a simpler landing page and README.md
- Added CSS baseline files to repository.
- Created a backend server with Python.
- Created a Python virtual environment.
- Installed FastAPI.
- Ran my FastAPI server for the first time to get "Hello World" running in my browser window. Woohoo! 🚀
- Created a `/server` directory to hold Python virtual environment and code.

## Key Decisions & Why
---
### Created a React App
- I'm already comfortable with and accustomed to React, so this provides me a familiar environment to work in.
- Later on, when it comes time to develop some UI for this project, all of the frontend tools will already be at-hand.

### Using Python and FastAPI for the Backend
- Python and FastAPI seem to be more in-demand and interesting to the industry.
- Also, they seem to simplify things over Node.js and Express.js.
- Also, they give me the opportunity to practice building Python backends, to round out my current comfort level with Node.js.

## What I Learned or Reinforced
---
### What I Learned
- GitHub Issues is a valuable tool for documenting and tracking bugs, features, and so on. I now know to use it liberally to support planning and development.
- How to set up and run a basic Python backend server using FastAPI.
- The `/venv` folder is equivalent to `/node_modules` in Node.js. It should be created in any Python project that has dependencies. It serves as an environment that isolates the projects files from the rest of the broader environment.
  - This is accomplished with the shell command `python3 -m venv venv`
  - Also, the environment must be activated by running the shell command `source venv/bin/activate` in the root folder.
- The equivalent of `package.json` in Python is `pyproject.toml` or (in older projects and still widely-used) `requirements.txt`.
  - `requirements.txt` can be generated with the shell command `pip freeze > requirements.txt`.
  - I can install from `requirements.txt` by running the shell command `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
- What `__pycache__` is.

### What I Reinforced
- App scaffolding and deployment using Vite and React.

## Challenges
---
N/A

## Next Steps
---
- Start filling in `main.py` with some routes.
- Get more fully clear on the technology stack and workflow for this project

## Notes to Future Me
---
- I've gotten a lot of value out of today's work by learning about `/venv` and `/pycache`, which forms a baseline for backend Python development.

## References
---
- [Getting started with FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/first-steps/)
- [About Python's `/venv`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html)