# Day 003 - 06 April 2025
---
**Key Milestone/Celebration:** Successfully interacted with my PostgreSQL server through Python code.

## What I Did Today
---
- Researched backend-postgres integration solutions and decided on `psycopg`.
- Created `shell_commands.txt` to consolidate important shell commands in a single place.
- Created `alerts.py` to handle stock price alert management and coded up skeleton for implementation.
- Finished creating server routes for alert management.
- Added `last_update_date` to `alerts` table. Also, added minimum length check to `ticker` column.
- Installed `psycopg` and used it to create stock price alert management functionality in `alerts.py`.
- Used `psycopg` methods to implement initial test interactions with PostgreSQL database with the help of psycopg documentation, PostgreSQL documentation, and the PYnative tutorial linked below.
- Implemented alert management functions in `alerts.py` using `psycopg` methods.
- Created `database.py` file to handle database connection initialization and termination.
- Learned about FastAPI lifespan events and how to use them in conjuction with the `database.py` file.
- Adjusted `alerts.py` to properly interact with the database connection defined in `database.py`.

## Key Decisions & Why
---
- I will use `psycopg` for backend-Postgres integration.
  - This is *the* standard library for Python-PostgreSQL integration. It has lots of functionality and is easy to use (and therefore easy to learn).
- I will use the new `alerts.py` file to connect my server with my database.
  - This allows me to practice separation of concerns and modularity. All of my queries and advanced validation will be in one consolidated place.
- I will use the new `database.py` file to house my database initialization and termination.
  - This will allow me to use FastAPI lifespan events to open the connection once, keep it open over the course of the API lifespan, and close it on API server termination.
  - This in turn allows me to open the database connection once on API startup and terminate it on API shutdown, rather than the very inefficient alternative of opening a database connection with every new request.

## What I Learned or Reinforced
---
### What I Learned
- The go-to library for Python-PostgreSQL integration is `psycopg`. I learned about the features of this library and got to practice using it.
  - I learned about how a database connection is made and the `Connection` object.
  - I learned about the `cursor` object.
  - I learned how to executy queries usieng `cursor.execute()`.
  - I learned about committing transactions using `Connection.commit()`.
- The Python `with...as...` statement is used as a context manager.
  - Example usage: In `psycopg` we can conveniently use it to  open a database connection and then have it automatically close when the code block finishes running.
  - ChatGPT says: "`with...as...` is **very common** in Python—used everywhere from file handling to database connections to threading locks, and more. It’s idiomatic Python: any time you work with resources that need to be cleaned up, expect to see `with`."
- Using FastAPI lifespan events.
- Database connections should not be opened and closed with each API request. Rather, a connection should be opened at API startup and closed at API shutdown, using lifespan events.
  - Cursors, on the other hand, can be created whenever they're needed.
- Learned about the use of typing in Python.
- When I import variables at the top level in a Python file, a *snapshot* is imported, and the value is not updated in the file when it is changed in the original file. Thus, when variables or the like are being updated in a module I should import the module and not the specific variable/item.
  - This is why in `alerts.py` I can't simply import the connection variable at the top of the file. If I do, then it's value is imported and sustained as `None`.

### What I Reinforced
- Error-handling and validationat different levels of the stack.
- Using SDKs to interact with databases.
- Investigating documentation and other online resources to find solutions.

## Challenges
---
N/A

## Issues
---
### Created
---
- [[Feature] Add security to postgreSQL database](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/16)
- [[Enhancement] Add type hints to all functions](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/19)

### Resolved
---
- [[Feature] Create user stock price alert management functionality](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/11)
- [[Feature] Implement code in backend to interact with DB](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/18)

## Next Steps
---
- Develop functions in `alerts.py` to provide desired functionality.

## Notes to Future Me
---
N/A

## References
---
- [`psycopg` library website](https://www.psycopg.org/)
  - [`psycopg` installation instructions](https://www.psycopg.org/install/)
  - [`psycopg` documentation - Basic module usage](https://www.psycopg.org/psycopg3/docs/basic/usage.html)
- [PYnative - Python PostgreSQL Tutorial Using Psycopg2](https://pynative.com/python-postgresql-tutorial/)
- [FastAPI Documentation - Lifespan Events](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/advanced/events/)
- [Python Documentation - Typing](https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html)