# Day 005 - 08 April 2025
---
**Key Milestone/Celebration:** I have some graphics to look at for my project!

## What I Did Today
---
- Tested all routes and new evaluation/triggering functionality. Fixed minor bugs.
- Refactored backend code and cleaned up comments.
- Merged the alerts_evaluation branch into main.
- Moved files around and adjusted settings so that frontend server runs properly (because previously it wasn't starting up properly).
- Implemented basic frontend graphics to have a visual aspect to this project that I can now build off of, replacing the default React + Vite graphics.
- Created skeletons of all necessary React Components.
- Created a series of issues related to frontend development work.

## Key Decisions & Why
---
- My React frontend at this point consists of the components `Alert`, `AlertsArea`, `AlertsManager`, `Chart`, `ChartArea`, `Header`, and `SearchBar`. This system of components allows for modular separation of concerns for different project functions and parts.
- All components consist of a repository containing a `.jsx` file and a `.css` file each. This standardized organizational scheme allows for clean separation of code and styling between components and neat organization in the filesystem.

## What I Learned or Reinforced
---
### What I Learned
- For real-time database updates, `Connection.commit()` should be called after every write operation.

### What I Reinforced
- Merging branches in Git.
- Using Thunder Client to test API routes.
- CSS styling.
- Designing React Components.

## Challenges
---
- Merging branches locally and remotely. I alsways seem to confuse something in this process and need more practice to be comfortable with it.
- I want to develop a nice frontend but want to minimize how much time I spend on it. This will be a thoughtful balance to work with as I continue development.

## Issues
---
### Created
---
- [[Feature] Create basic graphics for frontend](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/28)
- [[Feature] Implement user authentication to allow for multiple users to have personal alerts](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/29)
- [[Feature] Implement frontend functionality using mock data](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/30)
- [[Feature] Connect frontend to backend](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/31)

### Resolved
---
N/A

## Next Steps
---
- Continue developing the frontend, using the new issues as my guides.
- If it's not too much to do at once, start looking into user authentication.

## Notes to Future Me
---
- My Jammming project will be a valuable reference for me for developing my frontend, since there will be many similarities between this project and that project.

## References
---
N/A