# Day 009 - 12 April 2025
---
**Key Milestone/Celebration:** 

## What I Did Today
---
- Finalized my commit tag convention and created `commit-conventions.md`.
- Finished the separate `hello-docker` project to practice for containerizing `portfolio-insights`.
- Cleaned up comments in all files, mostly moving them to above-line.
- Installed, set up, and ran Prettier.
- Installed, set up, and ran Black.
- Moved environment files from code to `.env` and imported variable in appropriate spots in code.
- Tested frontend and backend builds in preparation for containerization.
- Created Dockerfiles and a Docker Compose file.

## Key Decisions & Why
---
- Started following commit tag conventions, because this is standard practice and I really like it as a valuable aspect of workflow organization.
- Will be using separate Dockerfiles for the frontend and backend and then Docker Compose to build a synthesized image using both together. This allows for clear but bundled separation of concerns.
- I'll use two `.env` files: one for backend and one for frontend. This allows for separation of concerns.
- I will deploy on AWS using EC2, S3, and RDS, mostly because all of these fall within the front tier and I don't need anything more robust than that. Also, I could deploy everything on an EC2 instance but want to demonstrate skill with multiple AWS technologies.

## What I Learned or Reinforced
---
### What I Learned
- There are linting tools and commit format enforcement tools (e.g. Husky, `pre-commit`) that can be used to enforce commit formatting.
- How to use Docker Compose.
- What is Prettier and how to use it.
  - Uses `.prettierignore` to skip over certain files.
- What is Black and how to use it.
  - Uses `.gitignore` or `pyproject.toml` to skip over certain files.
- Prettier and Black syntax enforcements align with the best practices that are pretty much universally accepted in the world of software development. 
- What a `pyproject.toml` file is and how to use it.
- `.venv` is standard practice over `venv`.
- It is standard convention to write comments above-line rather than inline.
- `os` is a built-in Python module used to access environment variables. I learned how to use it today.
- How to use `dotenv` in Python.
- "dsn" = "data source name", and is conventionally used to name database connection strings.
- `pathlib` is Python's built-in library for handling filesystem paths. I learned how to use it today.
- How to use environment variables in Vite/React.
- How to split build and serve responsibilities in a Dockerfile.
- Learned about what LTS mean and how it applies to Docker images.
- Deciding between different Docker image tags.
- Learned about nginx.
- How to write a Docker Compose file.
- Docker Compose sets up an internal DNS that resolves service names to containers. Thus, service names become our API URL rather than `127.0.0.1` or `localhost`.
- How to use `.dockerignore` files.
- How to inject `.env` variables into a Docker container.

### What I Reinforced
- Using commit tags.
- Writing Dockerfiles and spinning up Docker containers.
- Best practices for comments and code syntax.
- Using `.env` and `dotenv` to set aside environment variables and load them into my code.
- Console-based debugging.
- Working with AWS Console.
  - EC2 (launching an instance with user data)
  - IAM
  - S3
  - CDN
  - RDS
- Working with CLI.
- Working with SSH.

## Challenges
---
- 

## Issues
---
### Created
---


### Resolved
---
- [[Feature] Containerize project](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/3)

## Next Steps
---
- 

## Notes to Future Me
---
- 

## References
---
- [Docker Hub - Node Images](https://hub.docker.com/_/node)
- [Docker Hub - Python Images](https://hub.docker.com/_/python)
- [Docker Hub - NGINX Images](https://hub.docker.com/_/nginx)
- [Docker Documentation - Docker Compose Quickstart](https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/)
- [HereWeCode - A Beginner’s Guide to Docker — How to Create a Client/Server Side with Docker-Compose](https://herewecode.io/blog/a-beginners-guide-to-docker-how-to-create-a-client-server-side-with-docker-compose/)