# Day 006 - 09 April 2025
---
**Key Milestone/Celebration:** Created a working, interactive frontend.

## What I Did Today
---
- Finished CSS styling of GUI, particularly locking in the app webpage layout.
- Implemented frontline search validation for ticker searches in the SearchBar and ChartArea components.
- Implemented proper HTTP responses in the `/stocks/` route, complete with status codes.
- Established communication between components in the chart area of the main app frontend section.
- Added CORS middleware to `server.py`, the lack of which was preventing the frontend from connecting properly with the backend API.
- Implemented an API call to the `/stocks/` route in the front end and populated the chart area with stock information.

## Key Decisions & Why
---
- Implemented basic search validation in the frontend. This reduces computational overhead by catching invalid search terms before they're sent to the backend.

## What I Learned or Reinforced
---
### What I Learned
- I can lock an app within the viewport and prevent user scrolling using `body, html { height: 100%; overflow: hidden }`.
- How to generate proper JSON responses, HTTP exceptions, and status codes in FastAPI.
- The differences between `raise`ing an `HTTPexception` and `return`ing a JSON response in FastAPI when it comes to errors.
  - The former is best for convenience. It is easy to use and plays well with middleware and OpenAPI docs.
  - The latter is best for control, when I want total control over the response.
- `Exception` is the base class for all built-in exceptions in Python, and thus can be used to catch errors.
- How to implement CORS middleware in FastAPI.

### What I Reinforced
- CSS styling.
  - Working with flex containers.
  - Making parent and children (flex) containers work nicely with each other.
- HTML form validation.
- Using regex (in this case for search term validation).
- Establishing communication between React components, praticularly through the use of state hooks, data flow, and handlers.
- Generating proper JSON responses, HTTP exceptions, and status codes in API routes.
- Working with CORS.
- Making API calls through the frontend.

## Challenges
---
- It was a headache to get different flex containers working with together. Truly, it takes a lot of intentionality and caution to make flex children and parents and other ancestors and successors work well together.
- After my frontend and backend code were connected, I had difficulty identifying why they still didn't want to work together. After some confusion and debugging I realized that it was a CORS issue.

## Issues
---
### Created
---
- [[Feature] Implement proper responses in chart for different ticker searches](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/32)
- [[Feature] Implement proper responses in alerts manager for different ticker searches](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/33)

### Resolved
---
- [[Feature] Create basic graphics for frontend](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/28)
- [[Feature] Implement proper responses in chart for different ticker searches](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/32)

## Next Steps
---
- Get all the components in the alerts area properly talking to each other.
- Continue enhancing FastAPI routes with proper JSON responses, HTTP exceptions, and status codes.
- Connect alerts manager to database of alerts.

## Notes to Future Me
---
- Right now, I've set CORS to allow all origins. This should be adjusted once this project hits production.

## References
---
- [MDN Web Docs - Basic Concepts of Flexbox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_flexible_box_layout/Basic_concepts_of_flexbox)
- [FastAPI Documentation - Response Model](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/response-model/)
- [FastAPI Documentation - Response Status](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/response-status-code/)