# Day 004 - 07 April 2025
---
**Key Milestone/Celebration:** Completed and tested implementation of database manipulation using routes and Python code.

## What I Did Today
---
- Refined docstring formatting.
- Finalized implementation of alert management routes and functions in `server.py` and `alerts.py`, respectively, Including error handling, type validation, and SQL query string input placeholders in both positional and named styles.
  - `GET` for retrieving a stock price alert by id.
  - `POST` for creating a new stock price alert.
  - `DELETE` for deleting a stock price alert by id.
- Created an alert `BaseModel` to work with my `POST` route more easily, and integrated it into my routes.
- Implemented functionality for evaluating active stock price alerts and triggering appropriate alerts.
- Refined the database to make Python code cleaner by removing `one_time`, using `DEFAULT` to automatically add a creation date, and adding `triggered` and `expired` columns for easy search and update functions.
- Created `testing.py` to allow for easily populating alerts table with mock data.

## Key Decisions & Why
---
- I will be using input placeholders in SQL queries executed using the `psycopg` library, for security and to follow standard practice.
- I will take in alert information as a JSON model using the `pydantic` library.
  - This allows me to take in complicated data in a more clean and readable way.
  - This allows me to do automatic type validation with barely any extra code.
- I will use the `datetime` library to parse my expiration date in my alerts POST route into a valid `datetime` object.
  - This is the easiest way to make an object that will be friendly to SQL in `alerts.py`.
- Added a `triggered_date` column to my database. Rather than deleting alerts when they are triggered I will mark them as triggered. That way I still have the data in case later I want to log it, view history, or something like that. Better to keep too much data than delete too much data.
- Removed `one_time` from `alerts` table because I realized that implementing multi-trigger alerts would unnecessarily complicate this project.

## What I Learned or Reinforced
---
### What I Learned
- PEP 257 recommends that all Python docstrings be enclosed in `"""` rather than `'''`.
- Fetching data from SQL queries run through the `psycopg` `Connection.cursor.execute()` method using `Connection.cursor.fetchone()` and associated methods.
- How to use input placeholders for SQL query strings in the `psycopg` library.
- Using the `datetime` library. This can be used to create time inputs into SQL queries in `pydantic` that are correctly processed by PostgreSQL.
- FastAPI will automatically parse query parameters if the function associated with a route has type hints.
- How to use the `pydantic` library, and specifically the `BaseModel` class.
- FastAPI will parse HTTP request body and query parameters according to whether I include type hints in the route function parameters indicating that either basic types or a `pydantic` model is expected.
- I can use `RETURNING` in SQL queries to return a certain row value after creating or deleting a row.
- Using named versus positional styles with `psycopg` input placeholders. The former allows me to easily deconstruct a dictionary into its values by key.
- Dictionaries in Python serve the function of JavaScript lightweight objects.
- How to retrieve current stock price using `yfinance`.

### What I Reinforced
- Using input placeholders in SQL queries constructed in Python code.
- Working with query parameters in API routes.
- Working with JSON objects in HTTP requests.
- Testing server routes using Thunder Client.
- Implementing caching using Python dictionaries.
- Updating values in a PostgreSQL database.
- Using default values in PostgreSQL table columns.
- Using Git branches.

## Challenges
---
N/A

## Issues
---
### Created
---
- [[Feature] Return proper HTTP response objects in `server.py` routes](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/20)
- [[Idea] Allow for multiuse alerts that can be triggered multiple times](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/21)
- [[Idea] Create a trigger to automatically update the update time for each database row](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/24)
- [[Enhancement] Do batch updating of triggered alerts rather than one at a time](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/25)

### Resolved
---
- [[Feature] Implement code in backend to interact with DB](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/18)
- [[Testing] Create mock data for a fresh alerts database](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/22)
- [[Feature] Implement functionality for evaluating and triggering stock price alerts](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/23)

## Next Steps
---
- Do testing of implementations completed today and merge `alert_evaluation` branch with main branch.

## Notes to Future Me
---
- According to PEP 257, docstrings should be enclosed in `"""` rather than `'''`. This is good for me to keep in mind for the future.
- I'm learning a lot about how error handling, validation, and functionality should be spread out most naturally between the server, backend, and database. These are lessons that will be valuable for me to keep in mind for the future.
- I'm learning through this project how little I actually have to build from scratch. Much of the complicated functionality that I might want to implement has already been taken care of and made easy by libraries, and all I have to do is thoughtfully glue them together. It's still a lot of work and takes engineering expertise, but it's not as intense as it may seem at first approach.

## References
---
- [psycopg Documentation - Cursor Classes](https://www.psycopg.org/psycopg3/docs/api/cursors.html)
- [psycopg Documentation - Passing Parameters to SQL Queries](https://www.psycopg.org/psycopg3/docs/basic/params.html)
- [PEP 257 - Docstring Conventions](https://peps.python.org/pep-0257/)
- [Python Documentation - `datetime`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/datetime.html)
- [Pydantic Documentation](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/)