# Day 007 - 10 April 2025
---
**Key Milestone/Celebration:** 

## What I Did Today
---
- Updated/improved `/alerts` `GET` endpoint to return a proper JSON object (by updating implemantation in `alerts.py`) and raise an exception when needed.
- Continued connecting frontend components with each other.
  - Connected the `AlertsArea` and `SearchBar` components. Implemented a new `searchHandler` function in `AlertsArea.jsx` to accomplish this.
  - Connected the `AlertsArea` and `AlertsManager` components.
  - Connected the `App`, `AlertsManager`, and `AlertCreationPrompt` components.
- Continued connecting frontend and backend.
  - Implemented an API call in the `AlertsArea` component to retrieve a list of stock price alerts.
- Implemented rendering of a list of mock and then real alerts in the `AlertsManager` component.
- Created, styled, and rendered a button for creating new alerts in the `AlertsManager` component.
- Created, styled, and rendered the `AlertCreationPrompt` component for creating a new alert.
- Established conditional rendering for the new alert creation prompt/form, using buttons to close and open it.

## Key Decisions & Why
---
- Created and thoughtfully styled the `AlertCreationPrompt` component to facilitate creation of a new stock price alert using the frontend. This will allow for easy testing of the `POST` API route for creating a new alert.

## What I Learned or Reinforced
---
### What I Learned
N/A

### What I Reinforced
- Establishing communication between frontend and backend.
- Establishing communication between React components.
- Rendering a list of objects in React.
- Conditional rendering in React.
- Relative and absolute element positioning in HTML/CSS.
- Generating forms in HTML.
- CSS styling.
- Component state management in react.
- Using `useEffect` for running operations on mount of React app.

## Challenges
---
- Styling components and making children and parents work well together in HTML/CSS/React was time-consuming and fidgety.
- It's getting difficult to track states as they show up in different layers of my app. Successful state management will require continued thoughtfulness and caution.

## Issues
---
### Created
---
N/A

### Resolved
---
- [[Feature] Implement frontend functionality using mock data](https://github.com/jakubstetz/portfolio-insights/issues/30)

## Next Steps
---
- Review new implementations in `alerts.py`, `server.py`, and `frontend/` to verify clean, readable, and robust code. This was thrown together quite rapidly today and so I want to ensure that I didn't leave any holes while working so quickly.
- Implement alert creation `POST` API call from frontend.
- Finish implementing proper responses and error handling in API routes.
- Implement conditional return of alerts from database in `AlertsManager` component using conditionals in the backend SQL queries.

## Notes to Future Me
---
N/A

## References
---
- [FastAPI Documentation - Response Model](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/response-model/)
- [FastAPI Documentation - Response Status](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/response-status-code/)
- [React Documentation - Thinking in React](https://react.dev/learn/thinking-in-react)